Hi! I suggest checking out what folks are doing in the SHIFTPOD community with decorating and other ideas! Here is a great start!

https://www.facebook.com/groups/ShiftPodFanClub


Beat the Desert Heat!
Many people have been asking about how to keep their SHIFTPOD cool and comfortable even on the hottest days. So, we thought we would recycle an old newsletter and add some updates.
There are three basic ways to keep cool when camping.
1. Shade - Out of direct sun light
2. Air Flow - Creates Wind Chill
3. Air Conditioning - Cools the air
The entire concept of the SHIFTPOD, aside from being the fastest shelter to set up is that it reflects most of the heat of the sun. This does not mean it will "keep you cold" when it is 105F outside and it is all zipped up but with good ventilation they will be about 10-20 degrees cooler than a normal tent.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The SHIFTPODs are well insulated to keep the heat out and the cool air in or the other way around depending on your need. The silver material reflects most of the UV light that is responsible for thermal conversion to heat but you still need a way to cool the air inside. To cool the air you need a fan or air conditioner (AC) for best results in the hot climates.
The only way to "Make it cooler" is to lower the temperature of the ambient air.
Shade can come from trees, sun-sails (We like Aluminet), carports, or clouds. The problem is this doesn't necessarily reduce the temperature. In some situations, the wind can make trees dangerous, sails and carports fly away and clouds come and go.
Wind also creates wind chill which makes it feel much cooler through evaporation (Think Sweat). You can create air flow (Wind) with a fan (Powered by the grid, batteries, or solar) or by leaving the windows open. It also helps if you line up vents with the prevailing winds.
If the wind stops, air conditioners can be a life saver. The best way to lower the air temperature is to use and air conditioner. More info on ACs and the hows and whys below!
In this recycled issue we will go into more details about using swamp coolers, fans, and air conditioners in your SHIFTPODs.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Ok, so another design feature of the SHIFTPOD is that it seals up really well to keep the dust out in desert environments. This creates a problem when using an AC unit as ALMOST ALL AC units draw air out of the room as they run. This is inefficient under normal conditions as it is constantly drawing warm air into the room it is trying to cool. In a well-sealed SHIFTPOD (or Hexayurt) it will create a vacuum and collapse the walls and roof. This certainly will happen with the less expensive single house units, but it also happens with the $500-700 dual hose units as well. This is because the larger fan in the bottom of the unit will pull "room air" out through the wire channels and gaps that are left unsealed in the manufacturing process. The remedy is simple for anyone that is mechanically inclined. Pull the back cover off, fill the wire channels and fill gaps with spray foam and put the case back on before the foam dries. The whole process takes about 20 minutes and spray foam can be found for $8 a can at any hardware store.
The alternative to the expensive dual hose units that works well is the LG 10,000 BTU (On EBAY for $199 REFURBISHED) single hose unit with a modification with parts from the hardware store. You basically need 20-40 minutes and $25 in parts from the hardware store and the AC unit. Check out the video on youtube under SHIFTPOD AC MOD.
Another option we have NOT tried but many people seem to like is the ICE swamp cooler. If you have access to ice this may be a good option. There are many instructional videos on youtube and here is a good one: ICE AC. These need very dry air to work well and the last thing you want in the heat is more moisture in the air if it cannot evaporate.
You may also be surprised at how much difference a fan can make. We use and love this one: BATTERY FAN - THIS IS A GAME CHANGER!
Another question we get a lot is "What do you recommend to cover the SHIFTPODs?" Well, typically, if you use AC you don't need to cover the SHIFTPODs but the more cover you have the cooler it will be. Many people use pop-ups or quick ups for extra cover. We are not fans of this as it is more to carry, and they don't do well in high wind. Another option that we use is ALUMINET. It is easy to carry and can be draped right over the SHIFTPOD without any other supports. It also does great in the wind.
Remember the wind can build very fast, especially in the desert. ALWAYS put a pin in the ground and clip in before setting up your SHIFTPOD!
AIR CONDITIONING SYSTEMS FOR YOUR SHIFTPOD
Many people ask what AC can be used in the SHIFTPOD. Some even ask why you can’t just use any AC system. So here are the details... Most portable AC systems remove air from the room they are cooling. In a house, this is not a problem. There are many cracks and places for air to flow. A SHIFTPOD is very well sealed. This is done to keep the dust out. So here is the problem... if your AC sucks the air out and you are in a well-sealed SHIFTPOD... well it will most likely vacuum seal you in. Not fun. You must find a balance between getting enough fresh air and not pulling unwanted dust into the SHIFTPOD. It is very important to get fresh air. Without it you will die. We have found very few ACs that suck less air out of the room. One of them is the Whynter 12000 BTU Dual-Hose Portable Air Conditioner. These run between $350 and $450 and work rather well. If you are using it once a year out in the dusty desert it may last a few years.
Other ACs can be modified to work, but this takes time and skills. We do not recommend swamp coolers, but some people report great results with them. Happy and Cool Camping!

WHAT IS ALUMINET?
Aluminet is a light weight easy to use sunshade made for the agriculture industry. It is not only reflective it also blocks 70% of the light and creates great shade while also letting the wind through. We have used this material is extreme winds in some of the harshest places on earth. We don't sell it, but we highly recommend it. Please note: Any shade structure that is in direct contact with the SHIFTPOD might cause damage as it blows in the wind and grinds dust and dirt between the fabrics. Always keep some separation for best results in dusty and windy environments.
We hope this helps! Happy Camping!
